Take I-84 east (past Multnomah Falls) and follow signs to Bonneville Dam. It's one of the largest hydro-electric dams in the country. After you exist I-84, follow the road across the dam and the signs for the Visitor Center. The little museum is full of all kinds of cool stuff from back-in-the-day when they were building the place. In the lower levels is an underwater viewing room of the salmon ladder - I've seen salmon, lampreys, and even seals trucking through there.
https://www.travelportland.com/region/bonneville-dam/

Definitely don't miss the Fish Hatchery. As you leave the dam, follow the signs to the fish hatchery next door
After you park and are facing the fish pools, the gigantic sturgeon is in the back left of the property. The footpaths will take you right to it. Go into the little shed for a submerged view of the pond. Big ass fish!
https://myodfw.com/bonneville-hatchery-visitors-guide

Multnomah Falls is pretty cool, but can be super crowded on weekends - just finding parking is a problem. But definitely pull into the parking lot and if you can find a parking space you're golden. It's a very cook light hike to the vista bridge, or you can take the pretty hard hike up to the very top of the falls. IMO, the view from the top isn't worth the hike. The gift shop is neat too and the Lodge restaurant not too bad if you're hungry. 
https://www.oregon.com/attractions/multnomah_falls

After you leave the falls, follow the signs to Historic Route 30 and/or Crown Point. Along route 30 there are a bunch of waterfalls, some are right off the road and all within short hikes. The Vista House at the top of Route 30 has REALLY spectacular views of the Gorge. Beware of high winds. In addition to my own, I've seen people lose hats and scarves as soon as they exit their vehicles. 
https://stateparks.oregon.gov/index.cfm?do=park.profile&parkId=108

If you still have energy, as you're heading back west on I-84, exit in Troutdale for Edgefield Manor (exit 16). TBH I haven't been there in years but... but it's an old insane asylum turned into the Edgeifield Manor by the McMenemen Brothers who convert old historic buildings into bars, restaurants, hotels, etc. Edgefield has a brewery, winery, distillery, pub, restaurant, scotch bar, pitch-n-putt golf course, disc golf course, and a couple other things I'm sure. The main building, the hotel itself, is pretty cool just walking around. There are several 'resident artists' on staff that custom paint every room, pipe, crack in the wall, etc. I've spent countless hours stumbling around the grounds there. 
https://www.mcmenamins.com/edgefield


